About our research abstract：

Drug-target interactions (DTIs) are critical for drug discovery, providing insights into novel therapies. The development of language models has provided strong support for DTI prediction. However, Transformer-based self attention mechanisms often fail to capture fine grained drug target interactions, and single-mode feature representations limit the ability to fully characterize DTIs. To address these issues, this study proposes a novel prediction method DTIBFAI based on BERT and Informer model. DTIBFAI preprocesses drug and protein sequences using BioBERT and ChemBERTa, while incorporating molecular fingerprints and dipeptide composition features to augment the richness and representativeness of the features. Additionally, this study integrates a modified Informer for the DTI prediction problem. The modified Informer augments feature embeddings and effectively captures the complex interaction patterns within sequence data. The performance of the DTIBFAI model was evaluated by comparing it with several state-of-the-art methods for drug-target interaction prediction. Experimental results demonstrated that DTIBFAI significantly outperformed these methods on the evaluated datasets, achieving AUROC and AUPRC scores of 0.9661 and 0.9673, respectively. Case studies reveal the model's ability to identify novel DTIs, including previously unrecorded interactions, validated for their biological plausibility. These results demonstrate the potential of DTIBFAI in advancing DTI prediction and its application in drug discovery. 

The code and data are made public after the paper is accepted
